# Accesibilty + Usability
Reading Blog Summaries
# On Average by Avery Trufelman- Week 0
This article aims to define the concept of 'an average', how it evolved over time. The pioneer of the concept, a Belgium Mathematician named Adolfe Quetelet, gave more on the idea and how his findings helped in shaping the modern world that we live in today.
We can relate the concept of average in every thing around us such as the number of times any event is repeated (qunatitative) and also the amount of time it takes to complete a task (qualitative). So, how the concept of 'an average' relates to Accessibility and Usability? Let's dive deeper in the subject.
Before, diving into the matter, we need to know what is Accessibilty and Usability. According to the Government of Canada Standard on the Web Accesibility, it is making the content of the web more accesible to wider range of disabilites including blindess and low vision, deafness, movement limitations, cognitive limitations etc. Usability, on the other hand, according to the Government of Canada Standard on the Usability, is to what extent the specified users can find the information effectively and effieciently online.
The concept of 'an average' is important in this context because with the study of average difficulties that a user may have while interacting with the web, we can determine more probable solutions to include wider range of users for the system.
(Based on the article by Avery Trufelman at https://99percentinvisible.org/episode/on-average/)
# Stack Overflow- How can you program if you're blind- Week 1
The answers are based on the Stack Overflow site at https://stackoverflow.com/questions/118984/how-can-you-program-if-youre-blind .
The answers gave a much clear information on how blind people can program and how can they set up their development environment if they are blind. In the reply to the question above, we can find many answers from the blind people themselves and what software in particular they use to program different languages such as Java, C#, Python. All answers are based on experienced blind people who have been programming for 10-15 years. Some make use of screen readers like JAWS (Job Access With Speech), Eclipse is a fully featured IDE that is accesible too. Synthetic Speech and Braille Display are some of the options. Visual Studio also supports screen readers. In short, the article demonstrates the fact that blind people are not just limited to being clients, they can also be the developers and there are many tools that assist them to complete their tasks.
# Why Vim? Week-2
The answers are based on the blog http://www.terminally-incoherent.com/blog/2012/03/21/why-vim/. This article does explain the importance of Vim and ways to use it more wisely. The article was really helpful in underdstanding the working patterns of a powerful text editor like Vim. It is widely used for creating and changing any kind of text.There are plugins available you can use with Vim which was a new thing for me to know. The author has pointed out the learning curve for common text editors such as Notepad, Vim, Emacs, Pico and found Vim is the toughest one to learn according to the graph shown to which the author agreees. The author has an example for a simple task like copy and paste in other text editors vs Vim. Other text editors go through around six keystrokes whereas in Vim it is just 'yyp'. But you can easily get lost if you don't know the basic commands in Vim such as exiting the editor or for writing and saving. It was nice to know that Vim commands are more language like and I got to know more in details about the things I can do with Vim Editor.
# The Curb Cut Effect Week-3
This article tries to explain the difficulties faced by wheelchair users in the society such as access in the cross roads, bus stations, train stations, marketplaces etc. The physical barrier that they face used to be quite high back in the days but slowly that has changed in modern times and people are building more ramps and making more accessible places. The article explains that this creativity has led to a win-win situation for all not just the wheelchair users. Now there are bike lanes and slowly the society has tried to accomodate everyone including the needs of specially abled people. (Based on the article by Angela Glover BlackWell at https://ssir.org/articles/entry/the_curb_cut_effect)
# To be read with a screenreader WebAIM Screen Reader User Survey #7 Results Week-4
This article depicts a very impoirtant information about the surveys done on the screen reader users. According to the author, this survey was a follow-up to the 6 previous surveys and from the graphs we can know that the respondents outside of the North America has increased than in the past. Almost 90% of the respondents reported use of the screen readers and blindness is one major disability type among them. In addition to blindness, there is low vision or imapired vision, cognitive disability, deafness, motor and others. Blindness accounts for 80% of the disbaility type. Most of the users on the survey were found quite advanced for the use of screen readers. (ALmost 60%). Almost 75 % reported internet proficinecy. Of the 800 respondents in the survey half of them use JAWS. Apart from that, NVDA and VoiceOver were other major screen readers. I also came to know that FireFox is the most popular browser that they prefer. And for OS almost 75% use Windows Operating Systems. The users for the braille output with the screen readers was not as high as expected(Around 30%). The most popular is the Mobile Screen Reader which accounts for almost 90 percent of the users while the primary platform for users were Apple products such as ipod, iphone, ipad which was almost 75% of the respondents. For the mobile screen readers VoiceOver is the most convenient screenreader accounting for almost 70 % of respondents. The results of the impact on accesibility showed that almost 90 percent of the users agree to the fact that more accessible websites will have bigger impact on them.


